10/18/2017Former chancellor Nicholas Dirks to be paid $434K while on leave
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/08/08/former-chancellor-dirks-paid-434000-campus-leave/1/3
Wednesday, October 18, 2017
BY BOBBY LEE | SENIOR STAFFLAST UPDATED AUGUST 10, 2017
CAMPUSTUESDAY, AUGUST 8, 2017
RELATED POSTS
‘Do they make fun of myeyebrows?’: Dirks learns of meme
status in final days as chancellor
Former chancellor Nicholas Dirks to be paid $434K by
campus while on leave
Former chancellor Nicholas Dirks will be paid $434,000 by UC
Berkeley through the next academic year, more than 80 percent of
his pay as the campus’s former top administrator — even though
Dirks will not return to teaching on campus until fall 2018.
Dirks was originally expected to join the campus history and
anthropology departments later this fall. Instead, he will go on
paid leave for the next academic year and join the campus as a full
time professor for the 2018-19 academic year. Dirks will be paid
$237,300 as a professor.
Under university academic personnel policy, former UC
chancellors are eligible for a leave of absence “to retool and do
research in preparation for a return to the faculty as a professor,”
according to university spokesperson Dianne Klein.
Compensation for UC chancellors, Klein noted in an email,
generally ranks “in the bottom one third of compensation among
public AAU universities.”
“As is usual practice, UC Berkeley will pay his compensation
during this leave, which lasts through June 2018,” Klein said in an
email. “Such a practice of granting sabbatical/transition leave after
CRIME & COURTS
Female UC Berkeley student
sexually assaulted at Unit 1
residence hall
SEX ON TUESDAY
How do you like your eggs,
fried or fertilized?
CITY
After North Bay fires, experts
say East Bay ‘overdue’ for
intense firestorm
CAMPUS
Former Berkeley College
Republicans member creates
conservative society to ‘bring
back political decency’
CITY
Court lifts BAMN activist’s
temporary restraining order
on BCR president Troy
Worden
OP­EDS
Berkeley Law ensures equal
platforms for pro-Palestine,
pro-Israel speech
 
Please consider turning off Adblock or donating to The Daily Californian. 
We are a nonprofit student-run newsroom, and we rely on advertising revenue to help support our coverage.
NEWS
NewsSportsArtsOpinionBlogsMultimediaWeekenderFeatured
ABOUTDONATEAPPLYCLASSIFIEDSADVERTISEDAILY DEAL
DANIEL KIM/FILE
Tweet
Comment
5
MOST POPULARMOST RECENT
ASUCCAMPUSCITYCRIME & COURTSRESEARCH & IDEASSTATEUCOBITUARIESNOTES FROM THE FIELD
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
10/18/2017Former chancellor Nicholas Dirks to be paid $434K while on leave
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/08/08/former-chancellor-dirks-paid-434000-campus-leave/2/3
Investigation revealing ChancellorDirks’ $4,990 misuse of public
funds cost university $57,671
After 4 years in the spotlight,Dirks leaves the stage
 
 
 
 
RELATED NEWS
UC Berkeley professors paid 2nd-highest
salaries among all public doctoral
institutions
Christ turns down chancellor’s mansion
Chancellor Dirks receives honorary doctorate
from Sri Ramaswamy Memorial University
MOST RECENT NEWS
Female UC Berkeley student sexually
assaulted at Unit 1 residence hall
Female student robbed at UC Berkeley’s
Crossroads Dining Hall on Tuesday
Astronomers record gravitational waves,
origins of precious metals in 1st-observed
neutron star collision
leaving the chancellor’s post is common among public and private
universities in the United States and, at UC, helps to compensate
for the lower salaries that our chancellors receive.”
UC Berkeley Faculty Association chair Michael Burawoy and
campus molecular and cell biology professor Michael Eisen
criticized the university for paying Dirks a percentage of the salary
he was paid as chancellor instead of the pay he will earn as a
professor.
In an email, Eisen criticized the university’s policy as “not
something the university should do,” saying that although he did
not begrudge Dirks’ right to take a sabbatical, “he should be
drawing a faculty salary.”
Burawoy, who is also a campus sociology professor, added that campus faculty members with four
years of full time employment would be eligible for only 44 percent of their salary during a sabbatical.
Meanwhile, Dirks, who has a little more than four years of full-time employment with the campus,
will be paid close to 82 percent of his full-time chancellor’s salary during his paid leave.
“No doubt this is all laid out in (Dirks’) contract as Chancellor, but it does appear to be a reward for
negligence, incompetence and petty corruption,” Burawoy said in an email. “It is an appalling
commentary on the distribution of benefits at a time of supposed fiscal crisis and when many
students can barely scrape together a living.”
Dirks announced his resignation from the campus chancellorship in August 2016 and officially left
the office earlier this July.
His tenure as chancellor faced a number of challenges, including criticism of his handling of campus
sexual misconduct cases, his administration’s efforts to address a more than $100 million campus
budget deficit, and a university investigation which found Dirks had violated UC ethics by improperly
accepting free campus athletic services.
Dirks’ paid leave arrangement, according to campus physics professor and chancellor emeritus
Robert Birgeneau, is “identical to that for senior administrators ... at virtually every research
university in the country.”
“As I understand it, Nick will be on campus this year pursuing his research and scholarship and,
presumably, working on behalf of Berkeley,” Birgeneau said in an email.
Bobby Lee is an assistant news editor. Contact Bobby Lee at bobbylee@dailycal.org and follow him
on Twitter at @bobbylee_dc.
Please keep our community civil. Comments should remain on topic and be respectful. 
Read our full comment policy
 berkeley, Berkeley News, campus molecular and cell biology professor Michael Eisen, Chancellor Emeritus
Robert Birgeneau, Dianne Klein, Dirks, Former Chancellor Nicholas Dirks, Michael Burawoy, Michael Eisen,
Nicholas Dirks, paid leave, Robert Birgeneau, UC, UC Berkeley, UC Berkeley Faculty Association Chair Michael
Burawoy, UC Berkeley News, University of California, university spokesperson Dianne Klein
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
10/18/2017Former chancellor Nicholas Dirks to be paid $434K while on leave
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/08/08/former-chancellor-dirks-paid-434000-campus-leave/3/3
NEWS
ASUC
Campus
City
Crime & Courts
Research & Ideas
State
UC
Obituary
Notes from the
Field
Men’s
Baseball
Basketball
Crew
Cross Country
Football
Golf
Gymnastics
Rugby
Soccer
Swim
Tennis
Water Polo
Women’s
Basketball
Crew
Field Hockey
Golf
Gymnastics
Lacrosse
Softball
Soccer
Swim
Tennis
Track & Field
Volleyball
Water Polo
SPORTSA&E
Columns
Film & Television
Literature
Music
Theater
Visual Art
Comedy
OPINION
Editorials
Op-Eds
Letters to the
Editor
Columns
Editorial
Cartoons
The Soapbox
Sex on Tuesday
MULTIMEDIA
Arts
Graphics
News
Opinion
Sports
FEATURED
Editor’s Picks
Awards
Special Issues
The Weekender
Gameday
Best of Berkeley
Daily Cal Archive
Editors’ Blog
BLOGS
The Daily Clog
Eating Berkeley
Travel
A&E
Bear Bytes
Strikeout
Photo tumblr
DONATEWE'RE AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN NEWSROOM. MAKE A DONATION TO SUPPORT OUR COVERAGE.
Longtime Berkeley furniture maker The
Wooden Duck set to close after 2 decades
New California bill prohibits UC from giving
preference to nonresident applicants
Copyright © 2017 The Daily Californian, The Independent Berkeley Student Publishing Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Mobile site.
----------------Page (2) Break----------------
