10/16/2017Cal football notches massive upset, routs No. 8 Washington State 37-3
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/10/13/cal-football-notches-massive-upset-routs-no-8-washington-state-37-3/1/4
Monday, October 16, 2017
BY ANDREW WILD | SENIOR STAFFLAST UPDATED 11 HOURS AGO
FOOTBALLFRIDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2017
RELATED POSTS
Act Now: Malik McMorris rideshighs and lows to dual-sport Cal
career
Cal football notches massive upset, routs No. 8
Washington State 37­3
Maybe it took a 1-yard punt, a Heisman-candidate quarterback
more than tripling his season interception total, and Ross Bowers
front-flipping into the end zone for a touchdown. But it’s hard to
argue that Cal football didn’t make its own luck in its massive
upset of No. 8 Washington State. The rapidly improving defense
had its best game of the season, and the offense played mistake-
free. The end result? A 37-3 win that broke a three-game losing
streak with a stunning top-10 toppling.
What was the biggest key to holding a top-20 offense to three
points? To picking off quarterback Luke Falk five times after he
had thrown two picks in the first six games of his season? Pride
and revenge, of course.
Cal’s defensive line, which had been pushed around by Oregon and
Washington the past two weeks, clearly came out with something
to prove. They put consistent pressure on Falk from the first snap.
Luc Bequette and Tevin Paul were at their most aggressive, and
James Looney and Alex Funches continued to look more and more
comfortable in defensive coordinator Tim DeRuyter’s scheme.
WSU’s first drive ended on a pick when pressure forced Falk to loft
a ball that Camryn Bynum made a quick reaction towards. The
FILM & TELEVISION
First two episodes of ‘Star
Wars Rebels’ showcase fun
action, memorable characters
despite low stakes
CRIME & COURTS
Strong-arm robbery occurs at
Caffe Strada in broad daylight
Friday afternoon
STATE
RESEARCH & IDEAS
STRIKEOUT
Pro-grammar: A copy editor
on computer science
FOOTBALL
Cal football notches massive
upset, routs No. 8
Washington State 37-3
 
Downed PG&E power lines investigated as
potential cause for North Bay wildfires
Fevers in early pregnancy can lead to greater
risk of birth defects, UC Berkeley study finds
Please consider turning off Adblock or donating to The Daily Californian. 
We are a nonprofit student-run newsroom, and we rely on advertising revenue to help support our coverage.
SPORTS
NewsSportsArtsOpinionBlogsMultimediaWeekenderFeatured
ABOUTDONATEAPPLYCLASSIFIEDSADVERTISEDAILY DEAL
LIANNE FRICK/SENIOR STAFF
1.9K
Like
Tweet
Comment
6
MOST POPULARMOST RECENT
M. HOOPSW. HOOPSFOOTBALLRUGBYBASEBALLM. TENNISW. TENNISSOFTBALLTRACK & FIELDFIELD HOCKEYMEN’S SOCCERWOMEN’S SOCCER
WOMEN’S WATER POLOW. SWIM
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
10/16/2017Cal football notches massive upset, routs No. 8 Washington State 37-3
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/10/13/cal-football-notches-massive-upset-routs-no-8-washington-state-37-3/2/4
Cal football takes on No. 8Washington State at home amid
poor air conditions
Tale of the tape: Breaking downRoss Bowers week 5 75-yard
touchdown
Cougars’ second drive ended in a missed field goal, and the third
on a forced fumble by Jaylinn Hawkins. There was no questioning
it — the Bears were fired up.
The offense could only parlay Falk’s initial interception, which
placed Cal at WSU’s 14-yard line, into a field goal. Two more ugly
three-and-outs followed (Bowers finished 2-8 in the first quarter),
but after Bequette sacked Falk, a punt in the wrong direction
allowed Cal to start at the 23-yard line with under six minutes
remaining.
Facing 2nd and goal, offensive coordinator Beau Baldwin dialed up
a unique play, to say the least. Desperately in need of a revived
rushing offense, Baldwin pulled out all the stops and called a weak
side run from a pistol formation with three tight ends. Vic Enwere dragged a helpless Cougar into the
end zone to give Cal a 10-0 lead.
On the next drive, a timely run stuff courtesy of Looney cost the Cougars eight yards in the red zone.
Another sack by Cameron Goode almost took Washington State out of field goal range, but WSU
kicker Erik Powell nailed a 52-yarder to put the Cougars on the board and cut Cal’s lead to 10-3.
Two penalties on left tackle Kamryn Bennett (false start, ineligible receiver downfield) cost the Bears
a chance at a score on the next drive after Bowers got into a good rhythm by nailing some short
throws.
A lengthy 12-play drive with three third-down conversions had the feeling of an inevitable Cougars
score. Bynum, however, had other plans and reeled in his second pick, reading the quarterback’s eyes
from the snap and making a perfect play on the throw.
With a minute left in the first half, a muffed Cougars punt went for a grand total of one yard and gave
the Bears the ball at WSU’s 45-yard line. Bowers put together one of the finest drives of his young
career, going 6/6 on the drive and capping it off with a great throw on play action with no time
remaining in the half to Kyle Wells, giving Cal a 17-3 halftime lead.
The defense had no intentions of slowing down in the second half, picking Falk off twice in the third
quarter and adding injury to insult with four sacks and a handful of additional quarterback hits.
Neither offense could get much of anything going however, and the only score came on a 46-yard kick
from Cal’s Matt Anderson. Enwere finally got things truly going on the ground on the last drive of the
third quarter, which dragged into the fourth, accounting for 58 rushing yards and almost tripling his
then-total.
If there was any question that Cal’s win was fated, it was eliminated with Bowers’ front-flip into the
endzone for a 7-yard touchdown, almost an exact replica of a play he pulled off in high school that
initially put him on the national map — 27-3 Bears.
Cal’s offense was content to run the rest of the game out, but the defense was intent on embarrassing
Falk even further. With five minutes remaining, Jordan Kunaszyk forced a fumble on a massive sack
and Gerran Brown brought the ball in for a fumble to extend the lead to an absurd 36-3. A 20-point
underdog had roared to a 30-point lead. Falk’s fifth interception of the contest almost made the game
a farce.
Amid the smoke, it took a game many argued shouldn’t take place for Cal to pull of its first defeat of a
top-10 opponent in 14 years. Wilcox and the Bears wouldn’t have it any other way.
Andrew Wild is the sports editor. Contact him at awild@dailycal.org. Follow him on Twitter
@andrewwild17.
Please keep our community civil. Comments should remain on topic and be respectful. 
Read our full comment policy
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
10/16/2017Cal football notches massive upset, routs No. 8 Washington State 37-3
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/10/13/cal-football-notches-massive-upset-routs-no-8-washington-state-37-3/3/4
 
 
 
 
RELATED SPORTS
Cal football opens season with massive upset
of UNC, 35-30
Cal football gets mauled on road by No. 23
Cougars, 56-21
Cal football blown out by No. 6 Washington,
38-7
MOST RECENT SPORTS
Norm of the storm
Cal volleyball takes on USC for spooky match
Cal football vs. No. 8 Washington State live
blog
Cal Athletics says football game will be
played despite poor air conditions
Act Now: Malik McMorris rides highs and
lows to dual-sport Cal career
6 CommentsThe Daily CalifornianLogin1
 Share⤤Sort by Best
LOG IN WITHOR SIGN UP WITH DISQUS 
Join the discussion...
?
 •Reply•
George Gearhart • 2 days ago
Congratulations to the entire Cal football program and the amazing performance of the
players and coaches tonight It was fun to watch and to reflect on the experience of playing
for such a great University. Cal football Co-Captain and Big Game winner, 1967.Go Bears!
 5△▽
 •Reply•
Colum  • an hour ago> George Gearhart
I clearly remember watching you and your team. For these later Bears to get your
congratulations is high praise, indeed! Thanks for the memories.
△▽
 •Reply•
W. Paul Martin • 2 days ago
I woke up this morning and thought my vison had failed me - Cal didn't really win - I know
you cant believe everything you read on the internet - this must be one of those cases - I
dismissed the idea as a hoax and had my breakfast - unfortunately, the claim just wont go
away....
 3△▽
 •Reply•
Shappy • 2 days ago
Thank you CAL! It has been a thoroughly awful week with dozens of lives lost, 1000s of
homes lost, and hundreds still missing. To top it off my girlfriends mother passed way
suddenly after contracting the flu. ...but for three and a half hours I was able to forget all of
that.
△▽
 •Reply•
Jack Spencer • 2 days ago
And the worry was playing in the smoke. If they are going to do that well, maybe we need to
set Strawberry Canyon ablaze!
△▽
 •Reply•
thompson_richard • 2 days ago
Sweet to read after coming from San Diego to watch USC beat Our Bears. Maybe I'll buy that
$72 ticket to The Big Game after all! JUMPIN' JEHOSHAPHAT !
△▽
 Recommend 
Share ›
Share ›
Share ›
Share ›
Share ›
Share ›
 football, James Looney, Ross Bowers, tevin Paul
----------------Page (2) Break----------------
10/16/2017Cal football notches massive upset, routs No. 8 Washington State 37-3
http://www.dailycal.org/2017/10/13/cal-football-notches-massive-upset-routs-no-8-washington-state-37-3/4/4
NEWS
ASUC
Campus
City
Crime & Courts
Research & Ideas
State
UC
Obituary
Notes from the
Field
Men’s
Baseball
Basketball
Crew
Cross Country
Football
Golf
Gymnastics
Rugby
Soccer
Swim
Tennis
Water Polo
Women’s
Basketball
Crew
Field Hockey
Golf
Gymnastics
Lacrosse
Softball
Soccer
Swim
Tennis
Track & Field
Volleyball
Water Polo
SPORTSA&E
Columns
Film & Television
Literature
Music
Theater
Visual Art
Comedy
OPINION
Editorials
Op-Eds
Letters to the
Editor
Columns
Editorial
Cartoons
The Soapbox
Sex on Tuesday
MULTIMEDIA
Arts
Graphics
News
Opinion
Sports
FEATURED
Editor’s Picks
Awards
Special Issues
The Weekender
Gameday
Best of Berkeley
Daily Cal Archive
Editors’ Blog
BLOGS
The Daily Clog
Eating Berkeley
Travel
A&E
Bear Bytes
Strikeout
Photo tumblr
DONATEWE'RE AN INDEPENDENT, STUDENT-RUN NEWSROOM. MAKE A DONATION TO SUPPORT OUR COVERAGE.
Copyright © 2017 The Daily Californian, The Independent Berkeley Student Publishing Co., Inc. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy. Mobile site.
----------------Page (3) Break----------------
